h2. 0.13.0

* We no longer create accessors in @Representable.property@ - you have to do this yourself using @attr_accessors@.

h2. 0.12.0

* @:as@ is now @:class@.

h2. 0.11.0

* Representer modules can now be injected into objects using @#extend@.
* The @:extend@ option allows setting a representer module for a typed property. This will extend the contained object at runtime roughly following the DCI pattern.
* Renamed @#representable_property@ and @#representable_collection@ to @#property@ and @#collection@ as we don't have to fear namespace collisions in modules.

h2. 0.10.3

* Added @representable_property :default => ...@ option which is considered for both serialization and deserialization. The default is applied when the value is @nil@. Note that an empty string ain't @nil@.
* @representable_attrs@ are now pushed to instance level as soon as possible.

h2. 0.10.2

* Added @representable_property :accessors => false@ option to suppress adding accessors.
* @Representable.representation_wrap@ is no longer inherited.
* Representers can now be defined in modules. They inherit to including modules.

h2. 0.10.1

* The block in @to_*@ and @from_*@ now yields the symbolized property name. If you need the binding/definition you gotta get it yourself.
* Runs with Ruby 1.8 and 1.9.

h2. 0.10.0

* Wrapping can now be set through @Representable.representation_wrap=@. Possible values are:
  * @false@: No wrapping. In XML context, this is undefined behaviour. Default in JSON.
  * @String@: Wrap with provided string.
  * @true@: compute wrapper from class name.

h2. 0.9.3

* Removed the @:as => [..]@ syntax in favor of @:array => true@.

h2. 0.9.2

* Arguments and block now successfully forwarded in @#from_*@.

h2. 0.9.1

* Extracted common serialization into @Representable#create_representation_with@ and deserialization into @#update_properties_from@.
* Both serialization and deserialization now accept a block to make them skip elements while iterating the property definitions.
  
h2. 0.9.0

h3. Changes
  * Removed the :tag option in favor of :from. The Definition#from method is now authorative for all name mappings. 
  * Removed the active_support and i18n dependency.
