= Representable

<em>Maps documents to Ruby objects and back.</em>


== Introduction

_Representable_ maps fragments in documents to attributes in Ruby objects and back. It allows parsing representations giving an object-oriented interface to the document. But that's only half of it! Representable can also render documents from an object instance. 

This keeps your representation knowledge in one place when implementing REST services and clients.


== Features

* Bidirectional - rendering and parsing
* OOP documents
* Support for JSON and XML


== Example

Since you keep forgetting the heroes of your childhood you decide to implement a REST service for storing and querying those. You choose representable for handling representations.

  gem 'representable'


== Defining Representations

  require 'representable/json'

  class Hero
    include Representable::JSON
    
    representable_property :forename
    representable_property :surename
  end

This declares two simple properties. Representable will automatically add accessors to the class.

Alternatively, if you don't want declarations in your models, use a module.

  module HeroRepresentation
    include Representable
    
    representable_property :forename
    representable_property :surename
  end

This module needs a host class to be used with.

  class Hero
    include Representable::JSON
    include HeroRepresentation
  end

== Rendering

Now let's create and render our first hero.

  peter = Hero.new
  peter.forename = "Peter"
  peter.surename = "Pan"

  peter.to_json
  #=> {"forename":"Peter","surename":"Pan"}

Those two properties are considered when rendering in #to_json.

== Parsing

The cool thing about Representable is: it works bidirectional. By declaring properties you can not only render but also parse!

  hook = Hero.from_json('{"forename":"Captain","surename":"Hook"}')
  hook.forename #=> "Captain"
  
See how easy this is? You can use an object-oriented method to read from the document. 

== Nesting

You need a second domain object. Every hero has a place he comes from.

  class Location
    include Representable::JSON
    
    representable_property :title
  end

Peter, where ya' from?
  
  neverland = Location.new
  neverland.title = "Neverland"

It makes sense to embed the location in the hero's document.

  class Hero
    representable_property :origin, :as => Location
  end

Using the +:as+ option allows you to include other representable objects.

  peter.origin = neverland
  peter.to_json
  #=> {"forename":"Peter","surename":"Pan","origin":{"title":"Neverland"}}


== Parsing Nested Documents

Don't forget how easy it is to parse nested representations.

  hook = Hero.from_json('{"name":"Captain","surename":"Hook","origin":{"title":"Dark Ocean"}}')
  hook.origin.inspect #=> #<Location:0x910d7c8 @title="Dark Ocean">
  hook.origin.title #=> "Dark Ocean"

Representable just creates objects from the parsed document - nothing more and nothing less.

== Simple Collections

Heroes have features, special abilities that make 'em a superhero.

  class Hero
    representable_collection :features
  end

The second API method is +representable_collection+ and, well, declares a collection.

  peter.features = ["stays young", "can fly"]
  peter.to_json
#=> {"forename":"Peter","surename":"Pan","origin":{"title":"Neverland"},"features":["stays young","can fly"]}


== Typed Collections

Ok, things start working out. Your hero has a name, an origin and a list of features so far. Why not allows adding friends to Peter - nobody wants to be alone!

  class Hero
    representable_collection :friends, :as => Hero
  end

Again, we type the collection by using the +:as+ option.

  nick = Hero.new
  nick.forename = "Nick"

  el = Hero.new
  el.forename = "El"

  peter.friends = [nick, el]

I always wanted to be Peter's bro... in this example it is possible! 
  
  peter.to_json
  #=> {"forename":"Peter","surename":"Pan","origin":{"title":"Neverland"},"features":["stays young","can fly"],"friends":[{"name":"Nick"},{"name":"El"}]}


== Customizing

=== Wrapping

Representable is designed to be very simple. However, a few tweaks are available. What if you want to wrap your document?

  class Hero
    self.representation_wrap = true
  end

  peter.to_json #=> {"hero":{"name":"Peter","surename":"Pan"}}

You can also provide a custom wrapper.

  class Hero
    self.representation_wrap = :boy
  end

  peter.to_json #=> {"boy":{"name":"Peter","surename":"Pan"}}


=== Mapping

If your accessor name doesn't match the attribute name in the document, use the +:from+ matcher.

  class Hero
    representable_property :forename, :from => :name
  end
  
  peter.to_json #=> {"name":"Peter","surename":"Pan"}


=== Filtering

Representable allows you to skip properties when rendering or parsing.

  peter.to_json do |name|
    name == :forename
  end

  #=> {"forename":"Peter"}


== XML support

Representable allows declaring a document's syntax and structure while having different formats. Currently, it ships with JSON and XML bindings.
  
  class Hero
    include Representable::XML
  end
  
  peter.to_xml
  #=> <hero>
    <name>Peter</name>
    <surename>Pan</surename>
    <location>
      <title>Neverland</title>
    </location>
    <hero>
      <name>Nick</name>
    </hero>
    <hero>
      <name>El</name>
    </hero>
  </hero>

The #to_xml method gives us an XML representation of Peter - great!


== More

Instead of spreading knowledge about your representations about the entire framework, Representable keeps rendering and parsing representations in one single, testable asset. It is a new abstraction layer missing in many "RESTful" frameworks.

Representable was written with REST representations in mind. However, it is a generic module for working with documents. If you do consider using it for a REST project, check out the {Roar framework}[http://github.com/apotonick/roar], which comes with representers, built-in hypermedia support and more. It internally uses Representable and streamlines the process for building hypermedia-driven REST applications.


== Copyright

Representable is a heavily simplified fork of the ROXML gem. Big thanks to Ben Woosley for his work.

* Copyright (c) 2011 Nick Sutterer <apotonick@gmail.com>
* Copyright (c) 2004-2009 Ben Woosley, Zak Mandhro and Anders Engstrom.
